

This a model from the article:  
**The canine virtual ventricular wall: a platform for dissecting pharmacological effects on propagation and arrhythmogenesis.**   
Benson AP, Aslanidi OV, Zhang H, Holden AV. _Prog Biophys Mol Biol_ 2008 Jan-
Apr;96(1-3):187-208 [17915298](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17915298) ,  
**Abstract:**   
We have constructed computational models of canine ventricular cells and
tissues, ultimately combining detailed tissue architecture and heterogeneous
transmural electrophysiology. The heterogeneity is introduced by modifying the
Hund-Rudy canine cell model in order to reproduce experimentally reported
electrophysiological properties of endocardial, midmyocardial (M) and
epicardial cells. These models are validated against experimental data for
individual ionic current and action potential characteristics, and their rate
dependencies. 1D and 3D heterogeneous virtual tissues are constructed, with
detailed tissue architecture (anisotropy and orthotropy, due to fibre
orientation and sheet structure) of the left ventricular wall wedge extracted
from a diffusion tensor imaging data set. The models are used to study the
effects of tissue heterogeneity and class III drugs on transmural propagation
and tissue vulnerability to re-entry. We have determined relationships between
the transmural dispersion of action potential duration (APD) and the
vulnerable window in the 1D virtual ventricular wall, and demonstrated how
changes in the transmural heterogeneity, and hence tissue vulnerability, can
lead to generation of re-entry in the 3D ventricular wedge. Two class III
drugs with opposite qualitative effects on transmural APD heterogeneity are
considered: d-sotalol that increases transmural APD dispersion, and amiodarone
that decreases it. Simulations with the 1D virtual ventricular wall show that
under d-sotalol conditions the vulnerable window is substantially wider
compared to amiodarone conditions, primarily in the epicardial region where
unidirectional conduction block persists until the adjacent M cells are fully
repolarised. Further simulations with the 3D ventricular wedge have shown that
ectopic stimulation of the epicardial region results in generation of
sustained re-entry under d-sotalol conditions, but not under amiodarone
conditions or in control. Again, APD increase in M cells was identified as the
major contributor to tissue vulnerability--re-entry was initiated primarily
due to ectopic excitation propagating around the unidirectional conduction
block in the M cell region. This suggests an electrophysiological mechanism
for the anti- and proarrhythmic effects of the class III drugs: the relative
safety of amiodarone in comparison to d-sotalol can be explained by relatively
low transmural APD dispersion, and hence, a narrow vulnerable window and low
probability of re-entry in the tissue.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Benson AP, Aslanidi OV, Zhang H, Holden AV. (2008)
- version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/5d2fd39aa16f562d3bc19119847b7db0)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

